I remember Uncle Jesse and we were going down the
trail. He said, you know, Little Ava, you're old
enough that you should be learning poetry. I'm
going back when we get to the house and find my poem
book, and I'm going to teach you a little poem about
the flowers. I think that every little boy and girl
should learn poetry when they're little. They'll
appreciate it. Well, I didn't know what the word
appreciate meant, so I asked him. But, of course, I
didn't say appreciate. I said, appreciate. So he
explained it to me. And when we got home, he found
the...
Look at us going from that one guy that we always go
from door to door. We were just going to be able to
just pause on them and pull apart their dick and
take them. Uncle Jesse found his poem book and it
was a long poem. I looked back several times in my
childhood and wondered how in the world he took the
patience and the time to teach me such a long poem.
But I will recite as much of it as I can remember of it
for you. The buttercups are coming and the scarlet
columbines, and in the sunny meadows the
dandelions shine. And just as many flowers as your
soft hands can hold, the little ones may gather,
all fair and white and gold. Here blows the warm red
clover, here peeps the violet blue. Oh happy
little children, God made them all for you. The
little birds fly over and oh how sweet they sing to
tell the happy children that once again it's
spring. The gray, green grass comes creeping so
soft beneath their feet. The frogs begin to
ripple, a music clearing sweet. To me, that is a
beautiful little poem. I have forgotten the last
two verses, but that's been many, many years ago.
Well, I... remember as we went on up there and he'd
teach me that poem i'd have to learn a verse every
day and then he took time out to show me uh the
different types of little birds that flew over
from this poem and he'd show me the birds nest and
how they built them and he'd let me hear their call
and then i had to learn a poem a about the birds and it
was i know a secret just we three robin and i in the
sweet cherry tree but robin knows it best because
he built the little oh i can't tell the rest oh i'm
afraid i'll tell you every minute but if the
birdies in the tree don't feed I'll try my best the
secret to keep. Now that one wasn't years so long,
but I want you to know that it was the hardest words
to say secret. And it was just a hard job for me to say
those. I was tongue-tied when I was little. And my
mother often laughed and said, I believe they
clipped it at both ends. You just chatter all the
time now. Well, That's one of those things that
mothers get disgusted with little tutors right
under their feet. My goodness, my mother had three
of us right under her feet all at the same time, you
might say. But that was a great experience. And you
know, I look back and he
taught me my first poem. Well, I don't know. I
believe and I firmly believe that what is planted
in children's mind when they're from one to seven
is the making of their life as far as principle,
love, and consideration of their fellow man. Now,
I'm a strong believer in that, and I want you to know
that Uncle Jesse didn't lay anything aside. He had
a wonderful philosophy of life. However, he did
have a temper. Well, I don't know a fellow worth a
tinker's do that doesn't have one, just a little
anyway. But I look back, and I had to learn speeches
when I was little. Well, I had to learn to speak and
get up.
at Christmas time and say speeches to get my
presents. So I guess it hasn't hurt me any.
Well that was learn to say speeches when I was
little and learn to ride horseback or ride I guess
anything. I can remember Uncle Jesse putting me on
the back of old Dink and that was an old milk cow, an
old Jersey milk cow, raw boned as she could be and he
put me up and let me ride her from the gate. up to the
capian lot of an afternoon and of course that just
thrilled me to death i'd have a bouquet of flowers
for my mother in one hand and i'd be right i'm just
setting up on the old dink if she'd have spoofed at
anything i don't want to happen i guess flowers and
me and uncle jesse's been scattered all up and down
that trail because him with that wooden leg he
didn't have wasn't too stable i wouldn't imagine
As time went on, I remember my mother telling me,
calling me one afternoon and said, Little Ava,
don't you think that you could take your daddy a
little bit of water up in the field? I know the water
that he has is hot, and you could carry him up there,
couldn't you? And I looked at her and I said, But the
sticker's a bad mother. And she said, Yes, I know
they're bad, but they'll be worse if your daddy
doesn't have some water and can plow that corn
because we won't have any cornbread for next year
if we don't take care of it. Well, I don't know. That
kind of stuck with me a lot of times, I thought. Now,
if you don't do this, well, you're not going to have
it next year. My mother laid a foundation of
preparedness all the way through life for us
children in more ways than one. That's just a
simple illustration. She was always looking out
for tomorrow to take care of her little brood.
Anyway, I put on some shoes, and because the sand
burrs were so bad and the bull nettles, and I went up
and took my daddy some cool water, and it just
thrilled him, and he just thought that was the
grandest thing, that I'd walk up to the end of the
turning row and bring him a cool drink of water. He
was great to brag on his children when they did
something, and of course we would I think that was
great. I'm afraid in everyday life today we forget
to pat our little folks on their back and tell them
how proud we are of them. You know, just a spoonful
of sugar makes the medicine go down a lot of times. I
only wish that I could recall the many, many times
that my daddy has bragged on me when I know I didn't
do it. bang-up job, but he wanted me to feel like
that I had done well. He was pleased. So after all,
if you can please mother and daddy and please
yourself, what else matters? It wasn't long until
we moved back to Johnson City and my little sister
Margaret was born out at Flat Creek. what we called
the Steveson Place. And again, I couldn't say
Steveson. I'd say the Teefy Place. And I did love
Grandma and Grandpa Steveson so dearly. And
again, there I was introduced to music. They
always had Edgar and would play the jugs,
washboard, or anything. Just made up a band of all
the things that he could play right there in the old
saw. And they had a regular band of their own, and
we'd go over, and I'd be there. Grandma used to make
the best homemade ice cream if anybody ever
walked. And we'd have ice cream on Saturday night,
and music, and sing. My mother and daddy both could
sing so pretty together, and they'd all sing. For
some reason, there never was a Sunday that ever
went by as long as we lived on the part of Malice
River. We didn't gather at Grandpa Johnson's and
have singing. And his bunch of boys and girls could
really sing, and he had a beautiful voice. And
they'd play the piano and sing. And we moved down to
Johnson City. Well, we missed going to Grandpa's
on Sunday and singing. But we'd go over to
Stevenson's and sing and have just as much fun. Not
near as much fun, but we'd have a lot of fun. Then we
stayed down at the Stevenson place the whole year.
And Margaret was born on the 4th of May. Then in the
fall, we moved back up to Stonewall. And Papa
bought a part of Clarence Martin's place, which
was Uncle Clarence. Bought 280 acres from him and
160 from Grandpa Johnson and 160 from Willem Pesa
that was our neighbor to the north of us. and
margaret and i were little things and my daddy was
farming and he had a team of oxen and old tom and ned
and tom was the sweetest old steer that you ever saw
and I'd go up into the field. My daddy would put me up
on his back, and I'd get to ride home on old Tom. Oh,
and that was more fun to get to ride. Tom was just as
kind. But Ned wasn't. He wouldn't dare let you ride
him. And my daddy would tell me, now, if you've got
to be good to Tom, and you've got to shuck corn for
him, and you've got to get his cottonseed ready,
because if you don't, he won't walk. you to ride his
back. You can imagine how little I was, but I'd
shuck that corn, and I'll guarantee you I'd pack
that cotton seed in that gallon bucket just as
tight as I could get it so Tom would have all that he
could eat that night in order that I could ride, get
a chance to ride him again the next day. Well, that
was one more way of promoting a kid into doing its
work and doing it But that is just a wet philosophy
of hanging kids, which is a good thing to me in lots
of restaurants. My father had these two steers
that he had decided that he, oxen rather, they
were, well, they were steers, but they were oxen,
that he wasn't going to try to use them any longer.
He'd already gotten his land all broken. They were
not very good at using in the rows. It was good to
turn the land under, but when it came to the row
crops, they were just not the best in the world.
They were good, but not as good as he thought the
little mules would be. So he bought a span of mules
called Frank and Charlie after the two Stevenson
boys were such good friends of his that we lived on
down here on Flag Creek. And that's what he used
then to lay his cotton by. I am sure that I was over
four years old that summer, and my daddy fixed a
little old. Well, it's a flower sack for me to pick
cotton in. just work like a little turk getting
that flour sack full of cotton. And my grandpa
Johnson would brag on me and what a fine girl I was to
help my daddy. And I'd come in and wash my hands and
I'd always set the table for my mother. That was my
job as a little bitty thing. And I'd set the table
for her for every meal. And I can remember When we
would sit down at the table, lots of times I'd be so
tired and so hungry that I'd almost fall asleep
after I got still. But my daddy, if it wasn't
anything but God bless his food and our family.
Amen. It was something that he was grateful for. at
that time and we knew as little folks that we should
bow our little head and then as time went on my
mother taught me to say grace and my little sister
and we took it turns about saying grace of a morning
at the table something that I feel like that
carries over into adult years and age. And I am
grateful for the many, many things that my parents
gave me in early childhood that I will remember.
My father had rheumatic fever, or I say rheumatic
fever, it was sciatic rheumatism, not rheumatic
fever. sciatic rheumatism, and the doctor
thought it was from riding our cultivator seat and
bruising that sciatic nerve. Well, we sold out and
we moved down and bought a place on the Perlin Allis
again, down on the river from Louie Danz. In other
words, we just swapped places with him. And of
course, Louie had a lot more land than we did, but it
wasn't tillable soil like ours was a stone bowl.
But we moved down there, which is about two miles
from my grandmother Chapman, about a mile from my
Aunt Ola and Uncle Buddy Chapman. And we'd have to
ride to school, and that was about six miles to
school, horseback. But my goodness life, I had
been riding everything since I could remember
almost. And Grandpa Johnson bought me an old pony
when I wasn't but two years old and a saddle. And the
old pony's name was Old Cousy. And my saddle was a
little old Mexican. It had a great big old horn like
a Mexican saddle. And he picked it up somewhere and
brought it to me. And I'd go down. I'd ride down to
his house, go across that river, get his mail over
on the other side at the Lutheran Church, and bring
it back. He'd see me coming. He was sitting on that
porch, and he'd say, ha, ha, ha, you're riding old
koozie. And that just tickled me to death. Grandpa
would laugh and and asked me if I was riding the old
coosie. Of course, it just thrilled me, and I
couldn't get her out of a snail's gate. If you'd
fall off of her, she'd just stand there and wait
until you got her to get back on. But she's always so
tall, I always had to lead her up to a gate to get on
her, climb up on the gate, and then on to her because
I couldn't reach the stirrup bus a little. But it
wasn't any trouble, I'll assure you, to ride,
because I learned that from the cradle on. We came
up here to Johnson City to school, and that was just
like, oh, it was a foreign country in more ways than
one. The people along Pearl and Alice up there, one
big family. They were German folks and I learned to
talk German. I could talk German about as well as I
could English or maybe better. I could think
faster in German than I could in English. And I came
down here and I didn't mix at all good with them
because they all didn't anybody talk German. Of
course I butchered it up like it was pitiful the way
I butcher up my English with the German. lots of
times i didn't get well i just didn't get anything
done at school and my daddy and mother would have to
come in and see what was wrong well it was just a
language handicap that was all it was a barrier and
i think that's one of the things when i was teaching
school i had such a feeling for the children who had
that language barrier And I helped them, and I
guess I went over backwards towards helping them
to get straightened out, more so than I did the
others that were less fortunate in the work. But it
was a great experience, and I enjoyed going to
school, and I'd go by. and something go wrong i'd
stop and tell my grandma chapman and man she'd call
up my mother and she'd say now those little things i
they stopped by here and i gave them something deep
now you dress up the children warmer it's going to
be cold tomorrow now you be sure and send them a
slicker oh i'll tell you she gave orders My mother
would have to follow that. Grandfather Johnson
and Grandmother Johnson on the other end. I'll
tell you, I don't know how my mother and dad ever got
along as well as they did with us because we were the
oldest of the Klan Johnson kids and the oldest of
the Chapmans. And I'll tell you, they both were
after my mother and father all the time. Well,
those kids are gonna get killed. You let them ride,
you let them do anything. My poor old mother, bless
her heart, she'd walk out every morning to see us
off on those horses. And she said, girls, don't
ride so fast. Now take your time. You've got plenty
of time to get to school. And be careful. My mother
would go back in the house to finish her work. My
daddy would be at the gate. And he'd reach over and
cut a peach tree. and switch, and he'd say, here,
girls, use it on those old horses and put the button
to them and get there so you can play if you want to.
Now, that wasn't exactly right, but I can remember
him doing it, and it just tickled us dead. We'd wait
every morning for him to cut us a switch to get those
old horses going. Well, we made it through those
years. it's a it's a wonder i've had a lot of great
experiences for instance mr at the hyatts lived
across the river from us and there wasn't a
woodsman in the world that was as great as sid hyatt
i don't guess he knew all about the animals how they
borrowed why they hid their their their young in
the manner they did. He absolutely studied and
knew wildlife and nature from every angle. And it
was such a pleasure to ride the pasture with him and
he'd tell you all about it and he'd show you. It was
wonderful.
I'm just wondering if you ever, ever watched a
mother coon and her babies when she would take them
down to the river and teach them to fish. I'll tell
you, that is one of the most fascinating things
that a little person ever watched in their life. I
don't know how Uncle Sid ever kept me quiet long
enough that I could watch it all, but I did. And I can
remember it. That was the cutest thing that I ever
hoped to see in my life. And I wish it were possible
that every child could see a mother coon teaching
her babies to fish and how she'd do it. It was just as
much like a human being teaching her child. And
you'd hear her just chatter and chatter to those
little babies on the bank. And she'd catch them in
that fur and she'd shake them. She'd just shake
them good whenever they didn't do what she told
them to do. And one was a bad one and it reminded me of
myself, I guess. It was always a first to try
something and it went down to try and she turned
around and she grabbed that little fella and she
shook him good.
I forgot all about the most important thing that
happened. when I lived up at Stonewall before I
moved down to Johnson City the second time.
Grandfather gave me this old mare called old Cousy
when I was two years old in this little saddle. And I
was so proud of it. And I would go by and pick Lennon
up and ask him if he wanted to go down right across
the river with me and get the mail. And every time
that we'd go over there to get the mail, he always
wanted to ride in front of the saddle and do the
guiding. And I'd let him because it was easier to
say, yes, you can do it than it was to fuss and battle
with him. And I'd always lose anyway, so I'd give up
and let him ride in front because I'd have plenty of
fun riding her home. And all I wanted to ride, and he
didn't get to ride. His mother never let him. And if
she'd catch us before we got off, she wouldn't let
him go then. She's always afraid something
happened to him. But he went with me that day. And we
went to take Grandpa Johnson's mail to him, and
then went back down to his house. We got up there
where Grandpa was. Grandpa sat down. He told us to
get down. He had us something there. And got down
off our horse and gave him his mail, and he had us
some peppermint candy. And we sat down, and he
began to talk to us. And he told Lyndon that He
should always ride behind. Little
ladies needed to ride in the saddle, and they
needed to keep their clothes clean. To be a nice man
and polite and kind, he should ride behind me.
Lennon said, well, I don't ever get to be the front
rider, and I want to be up front sometime.
Grandfather talked to him a long time and finally
convinced him that it was his place to ride behind.
Grandpa
told him, said, now as long as you live, Lennon,
you're going to know that little Ava is your big
sister and you're going to have to listen to what
she tells you. You're going to have to be good to
her.
Now children, remember that you mustn't take
sides against one another. Be sure you know that
you're on the right side and stand by one another
because nobody else is going to take up for you like
your own flesh and blood. And there's not but one
thing I can tell you. And he got up and he stretched
his body run his hands through his beard, and he
said, just remember this, kids, that blood runs
deeper than water, and you can't turn against your
own flesh and blood, regardless of what they do in
life. If you don't stand by them, who is? Think
about it. Don't get mad at your little sister now,
Lennon, and get on and Ride like a little man. Well,
we got on, and we went on down to Aunt Rebecca's, and
she gave us a lecture about going off without
telling her. So over the time that we got around the
back of the house, Linda says, I'm going to tell you
something, little Ava. If I'm going to have to ride
behind,
we're going to fatten this old mare up. We're going
to put some flesh on her bones, because I'm not
going to ride behind here. These old bones
sticking through, they hurt. I said, well, how are
we going to do it? He said, well, can you unsaddle
her? And I said, yes, I can unsaddle her, but I can't
get that saddle back on her when I get ready to go
home. He said, well, we won't worry about that.
Pablo will be here in a little bit. That was a
Mexican boy that worked for Uncle Sam. He said,
Pablo will be in to milk the cow a little bit. And I
said, we'll get him to saddle her. Well, that sold
the deal with me, and I wanted to play a little while
with Lennon anyway, so we unsaddled her. We got a
wash tub and went to the oak bench. And we filled
that thing up about half full of oats and put it out
there. We were going to get her good and fat. And she
ate until she couldn't eat. Then she drank some
water, and we never could get the saddle on her, of
course. She found her. She died that night. But I
did get the saddle, get the masseuse to put the
saddle on her. And by that time, she'd already
begun to swell. So when I got ready to go home, there
wasn't any use in trying to, to saddle it up. I just
sat up on that saddle just like it was girded up
tight on her, but it wasn't. Went home next morning
when I went out to the barn, my old koozie was laying
dead in the hammer and the thing. Linda and I
fattened her up overnight. That was another thing
that, boy, it stays with me forever. I couldn't
hardly stand the idea of taking old Cousy off and
letting the buzzards eat her. And that was
something else that Uncle Jesse did. He took me
down, and he said, did you ever see a buzzard dance?
Well, I said, no, no. How does he do that? Do they
have partners? He said, I'll take you down and show
you. We went down to where old Cousy was. And those
old buzzards would hop all around and how they'd
run up and grab and run back. And it was a buzzard
dance, all right. It was something to behold. And
that was another experience that I'll donate to
Uncle Jesse for being pretty good about teaching
you the where's and wherefores of life with
nature.
As long as I can remember, when it came Christmas
time, we always went up to Uncle Clarence
Martin's, what is now the Texas White House, and
that's where we would have our Christmas. The
inside of this living room, where the Christmas
tree was always placed, is a huge fireplace that
burns four-foot wood. It has a hearth that is built
up 17 inches from the floor. And we would stand up on
this hearth for our stage to say our speeches or
sing our songs or to do our dance, whatever. And
then we were given our present from the Christmas
tree after everyone had finished performing. And
Uncle Clarence would always see that we had all the
fruit and candy and cookies that we could take care
of for the day. He was always great to have his own
pups, and he was a great hunter. And we loved dogs,
and we thought how much fun would be to get out and
play with them. He'd let us turn them loose and play
and they'd run and we would run with them and they'd
bark and oh it was just a lot of fun. We thought how
much fun it would be to ten can them. So we put the
dogs back in the dog run which was the side of the
fence there. We caught one at a time and we had ten
cans and rolled up paper bags and were tied to their
tails and whatnot, turned them loose. And Uncle
Clarence came out, and he saw that, and he called us
all in and set us down. And we had court on this
fireplace hearth, and we were all up in front of it.
And, of course, he was the judge. He talked to us
about how bad that we had acted, that how good he'd
been to us for this Christmas, how wonderful he
thought it'd be. And then we went out and tinned
Candy's dog. Well, it was more than... five
minutes till we were all in tears and begging to to
forgive us and ask him to please give us another
chance that we would never do him that way again and
he made us promise that we wouldn't to fulfill that
he suggested that we all bring in so many loads of
wood and put there by the fireplace to use well we
were punished all right and by having to do that
work. Then when it was time to eat our lunch that day
at dinner time, as a usual thing, he always fixed a
great long table for all of us to eat by. But he
postponed that a little bit that day, and all the
grown folks ate and got through. Well, he had the
made to come in and clear the table and put us a plate
down he came in told us now that this is another
thing that he had done he prepared a wonderful meal
for us and hoping
that his little dogs would at least get the bones
but he wasn't about to trust us to go out there to
feed him but no telling what we'd do to him And he
didn't know whether he'd ever be able to trust us
again or not. Well, that started the music all over
again. And we told him how sorry we were and we
wouldn't do it again. So we ate our dinner. We got
through. And, of course, we were more anxious than
ever to get the bones to the dogs. We took them out
there and brought our plates back in. When we came
back in, well, he said, well, he was going up to
Stonewall, but didn't suppose that we'd want to
go. We'd rather stay there and tend Candy's dogs.
Well, we finally got him to let us go. In place of
going to Stonewall, we went on up to
Fredericksburg. And we had a nice evening out. We
came back in. Our parents were waiting for us.
Uncle Clarence said, oh, well, that's all right,
you folks. Just go on home. Leave the children here
with me. Because they'll have a good early start in
the morning, and they'll have a dog apiece, the tin
can. Well, we didn't live that down for a long time,
I'll guarantee you, but we learned our lesson
right fast. He was a very persistent judge, and he
had great reasoning ability, and he really had a
way with kids. Made a big impression on our lives, I
would say that, for Uncle Clarence. He never made a
better man, a better Christian man. He was really a
wonderful person. And we look forward every year
to going to the big house for our Christmas. I can't
ever remember going to Grandfather Johnson's
when Uncle Clarence was living, because we'd go up
there. That's the way he wanted it. That's the way
it was.
Whenever it was threshing time in the spring of the
year, My mother would always go down and help paint
Frank with the threshing, and then
she in turn would help my mother up at our place.
This year, my mother made chili in a big wash pot.
I'll never forget that. I thought, my goodness
alive, so much chili. But nevertheless, it was all
eaten because all of the hands came around from
They would bring theirs from the joining fields
there at Clarence Martin's in Thrash. And they had
beans and chili,
homemade light bread, coffee. And I can't
remember the type of cake. All I remember is it was a
cake. I didn't care very much for cake as a kid
unless it had a lot of filling on it. And sure
enough, this didn't, so I didn't pay much
attention to that. And they had all kinds of
salads, green salads and fresh vegetables from
the garden. In other words, it was a feast to behold
when freshening time came. And everybody pitched
in and helped. All the neighbors would come and
bring food at noon and help with everything. That
is when, that was when living was real living and
man, a friend and Indeed, a need was a friend
indeed, and they all gathered at that time. Petty
jealousies and things didn't exist. If they did,
they were set aside when it comes to things like
that because everyone flew in and helped their
neighbor, and they got along like one big family.
It was a wonderful thing to grow up in a community
that had that much community spirit and love. I
cherish those memories because that implanted in
me one of the greatest things that life could have,
unselfishness. And in that little community, you
didn't find it. Everybody loved and wanted to
help. If you wanted to build a barn, they'd come in
and help you. You didn't have to go hire somebody to
help you. They helped you do it. There's always
someone who was a good partner that would always
come out and help. My daddy helped haul the lumber
that built the first school there, the Little
Junction School, where Lena and I went to school.
Do you think that they paid people to build that?
No. All the community went together, and they
built that little schoolhouse. Now that shows
community spirit. That shows love for their
children. and to show you that there was no
animosity toward their church or toward this
strife of religious colored creed or whatnot. In
the summertime, the
minister of the Lutheran Church would conduct a
little, well, much like your Head Start program
for all little folks that had never been to school,
and he would start them right there. And whether
you were a little Mexican boy or a little Mexican
girl, well, we didn't have any colored folks
working there, but always lots of Mexicans. We
went to school with them, and they loved it. this
minister's name is best I can remember Reverend
Heinrich and he was one of the sweetest if you say
men are sweet you say they're kind and they're
gentle well he certainly was and he took so much
pains with us in trying to put forth in everyday
life what it meant to be good to our fellow man and to
love one another I don't think that anyone could be
brought up in an atmosphere of love any more than we
were and to love our fellow man. And Grandpa
Johnson used to say to us, you speak. It never cost
you a penny to smile and say good morning, but it may
cost you a lot not to sometime. It's always best to
be happy and be grateful for what you have. It could
be that you wouldn't have anything, and then you
would have something to grumble about. But
whoever you meet in the morning, you speak. Be sure
you do that. I can remember that, and I was just a
little bitty treat. And that's one of the traits
that has followed me all through life. Be friendly
and speak to your fellow man. It never costs a penny
to smile and say good morning. You know, that's a
pretty good philosophy when you stop to think
about it. It pays dividends.
As we would look back on our little school, we had
double desks in this little school. And your
partner was supposed to always be older than you
were and take care of you. In other words, it was a
big sister and little sister game, a big brother
and little brother. And I think that is a pretty
good idea. And there were eight grades in this
little school. The older students would help the
younger ones with their work, and we enjoyed it.
And then we would read to one another, and we would
spell and do our numbers. I know for sure and
certain, without a doubt, that we got a better
foundation In our work. Then then we have today.
Because I'm a teacher and I know from where I speak.
When I was in the first grade, came to Johnson City.
I want you to know Miss Florence Walker was my first
teacher here. We had to know every one of our
multiplication tables. And we knew him. Don't
think we didn't. And we had to know how to read. and
spell, and we didn't go anywhere. We were retained
until we did get the basics. I don't know. They say,
who fails? Is it the teacher or is it the child?
Well, that is a $64 question. Who does fail? It
takes two people to make a failure. Now, remember,
it takes two. One can't do it all by himself. It
takes two of us. Anyway, Lennon was always an avid
reader, and I was always very quick with my math, so
we made a pretty good pair. My sister always
depended upon me for arithmetic, geometry, or
anything like that. She'd come to me first and ask
me. I cared very little about language. I didn't
like it. I liked the literature part of English,
but I didn't care a thing in the world about verbs,
adjectives, nouns, things. That's just
something that was dry to me, and I had to learn to
like it and to cultivate a desire for
it. We always took our lunch to school and lots of
times we didn't have too much for lunch. It was
always for sure we would have cured ham, sausage,
molasses and bread or jelly and bread, butter. And
some kind of cookie or some kind of cake. Sometimes
our mother would fix a fried pie for us or something
sweet. Anyway, we'd always have in our lunch
basket. And we'd put our lunches down in the back of
the room in the corner for everybody to see, and
you'd know your own lunch basket. And we'd go out to
play, and Mom would always fix us a sandwich that we
could eat at the morning recess because we'd be
hungry. We went in to get this, and the Klein boy
opened up his lunch basket, and there was a
beautiful piece of meringue pie in it. Lennon
opened up his basket, got his sandwich out, and he
kept eyeing that pie. And he said to me, he said,
isn't that a pretty pie? I said, it sure is. He said,
I wish Mother or Aunt Kitty would make one like that
sometimes. I said, well, I do too. I said, come on,
we're going to lose out in our game if we don't go on
and get out there. I caught him by the hand, and out
the door we went, and I missed him in a little bit,
and I couldn't find him anywhere. He'd gone back in
the house. He'd gone back in the house, and when he
got in there, he got a hold of this pie, and he got
that meringue all over his face. And he tried to
wipe it off the best he could, but sure enough, he
just made a bigger mess out of it. And he came out
there, and I never will forget Hugo Klein saying, I
believe somebody has been in my lunch basket. And
he went in there and he said, Lyndon, did you eat all
my pie? And Lyndon said, well, of course I didn't
eat it all. And Hugo said, no, I don't guess you did,
because more than half of it's on your face. And
Miss Nell Murphy. turned around and said, well, I
think it's time. Kids is getting in here and
cleaning up now. It's time to get to work. So I had to
take Lemon back to the back of the room, wash pan.
The teacher always kept a rag there for us to use.
She called me up to the table, and she said, now,
little Ava, take him back there and clean him up,
because he's just in the biggest mess, and he'll
get that sticky stuff all over his book. I took him
back and cleaned him up. I told him that we'd have to
share our lunch now with Hugo because he had eaten
it up. He said, oh, that'll be all right. I said,
I'll give him my peanut butter. And I said, well, he
may not like peanut butter. I said, you'd better
give him that piece of candy you have in there. He
said, well, you say so? I said, yes. I said, you sure
should. So he, in the place of giving him just one
piece of candy, he gave him all of his candy. And he
said, I am so sorry for you. I won't do that anymore.
And his teacher heard him say he was so sorry he
wouldn't do it anymore. And she made quite a to-do
because he hadn't been reprimanded by her as yet.
And she was going to do that, and he had already
apologized and told him that he wouldn't do that
again. And that made everybody feel good, and
Lennon felt like he was quite a big boy because he
had apologized and his teacher thought it was the
best thing. But that is one thing that Grandfather
Johnson had taught us, and we had to listen
whenever he spoke. We didn't sit there and mumble.
We listened to everything he said. If we didn't, It
would have been bad business.
In November of 1910, my brother was born on the
Paisley Place. I was the proudest one person of my
little brother. I thought he was the prettiest
thing. I never will forget what my grandfather
Chapman said. He says, Kit, you better go in there
and see about that baby. That girl will drag him off
just like an old cat with a kitten. Says she'll have
him and have doll clothes on him in another hour if
you're not watching her. Well, sure enough, I
didn't put the dog clothes on him, but I'll
guarantee you I had him in my arms and in my little
rocker that my grandfather Checkman had given me,
and I was rocking him when my mother came in. She
said, honey, how did you do that? I said, well, I'm a
big girl. I can take care of my baby brother. And I
was a big girl. I could do nearly anything that my
mother would ask me to do, and that's was for sure I
did take care of him and my little sister. I was a
little mother to all of the children because I was
the oldest. And I did try to look after him and I did
care for him to the best of my ability. It was a great
pleasure but a responsibility that I will never
forget. Sometimes I look back and wonder how I ever
got by, because Margaret and Lennon had double
teamed on me and decided they were not going to do
something. They'd wheel the tar out of me and
finally get me over on their side, and then we'd all
get a spanking when we got home for not doing the
right thing. And they wonder how that happened.
You can't stand off two strong heads like my sister
and Linda if you know either one of them. They're
going to win in the long run. But Uncle Sam didn't
mind using the razor strap, neither did my daddy.
And I'd get a spanking for not making them do, and
then they'd get a spanking for not minding. So
that's the way that went. And that's the way it was
all through school.
I don't regret it, but sometimes I wonder what in
the world went wrong.
Oh,
here
we
go.
She looks
like a monkey when she
does it. It's like I've got athletes on top of the
foot. Yeah. Athletes in step. Sorry, she's doing
elephant calls now. What calls? One second.
Do it again. It's not as good as your penguin. Yeah,
hold on to it. Listen. Do your penguin. Okay, he
wants to talk to you. No, I'm embarrassed. Jackie,
you're embarrassed? You're all touching. No, I'm
not. No, get her on your shoulder. Get off. I'm
falling at it. Yes, that's what it feels like. Did
you just call it forward? Did you hear that? It was
her barfing. No, she just barfs all the time. She's
got ulcers. Why did you give her an ulcer? I'm
surprised I don't have five hours. It's Sherry.
What? Hold on. What? They asked me to do that one
burpee. Huh? They asked me in the lobby to do that
one burpee. Oh, really? I said, it's Sherry.
Jackie! Y'all, do we still have five hours? Not
too long. Probably start at six. From 9 p.m. at
night until 5 p.m. at night. They ought to have,
like, from 1 to 1. Uh-huh. From 9 to 9. Uh, so, you
know, like, if they want to be steady, they want to
get to sleep. Now, from 9 at night until 9 at night.
Give me your majority on that. Oh, I'm writing on
the wrong side of this page. Gotcha. I can't
understand. That's okay. I'd laugh at you. I'd
laugh at you. Sure you can. Do you want to close one
of my pages? I told Rex to make your fish when they
shit ass. I can't believe
you're complaining. Y'all, what'd they say when
y'all told them about what happened? I gotta tell
y'all something, Rose.
Y'all,
now what can we sing to Rick? We love you, Rick. Oh,
yes, we do. Yeah, you want to sing that? No way. We
are blue. You are here. Jen! Shit, I'm going to walk
like that. Oh, yes, we do. We don't love anyone as
much as you. Yes, I do. When you're far from us,
we're blue. Oh, Rick, we love you. Y'all say that to
me when I feel bad. I'll be the bad guy. We love you,
Kai.
Y'all, we are all like instruments in the same
instrumental song. Pop, pop. I got to dry my hair
one of these days.
I think
I'm going to have to start washing every day. Why?
Is that a great one? Yeah. Y'all I'm getting
varicose veins. I have one too.
I think he cut
his arm. Is he on the phone
right now? Yeah. Well, he's, I mean, you know,
checking some of them. Uh-huh. Was he at the
grocery store? Uh-huh. I'm glad we didn't go
dancing. I don't think I've been taken. I don't
either. Besides the cost of my hair. Did you go to
the security? Huh? I got my towels falling off my
hair. Did I? Did I? Enabler to her? I did.
Jerry! Belly dance. Pussy dance. Oh my God. I'm
embarrassed y'all are in red. You cornucate
last night. I can't right now. No.
No,
I'm not, I'm
playing cards. Oh, um,
two for Ty and Jack, you got more than one of those,
right?
No, I'm not calling
you a liar. I'm just telling you you're stupid.
Yes, I am calling you stupid. That was stupid.
Huh? Because it's your turn. I think I did.
I dread to model one day. I do too, it's a
passion. Okay, y'all what? Y'all got 8 o'clock
classes and me and Kaydon, y'all better not wake us
up. We're going to. I'm going to tell y'all
something gross. God, Jackie, you do and I smell a
lot of shit out of you. I will, yeah, I am in the
morning. I know, I'm too often grumpy. You are not.
I am too in the morning. You are not. Once you get to
know me. They're different.
I can
see. We grow at each other. Well, that's a lot. I
hear them. I live with them. Do they not like me?
What do you mean, the things I pick up from me? The
things I pick up from Jackie. I'm a nice girl. All
right,
man. No, I'll just go out and find him. I want to hear
some funky, victory-laden, pretty mama. Gonna
take me by the hand, hand-tacky, by the hand,
pretty mama. Gonna dance with you, baby, all night
long. What can I say, Rick?
What can I say, Rick? I'm writing a letter. Tell
him.